Comment-Id:	10550581
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Thu Nov 12 00:58:42 UTC 2015
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	10550438

This is not a case of there being no applicable law, and some parties doing
something obviously sociopathic.

I do agree that you can have situations where there's no law covering something
(because of its novelty etc.) and someone exploits that to their own gain in a
way that's malicious to society.

The tax law is not such a law. There's few things that governments put as much
effort into as their tax laws. Have you seen the sheer volume of it for most
developed states? You could print it out, drop it on someone's head from a
modest distance and stand a good chance of killing them.

What is absurd, and what I'm objecting to, is that the government clearly knows
what it's doing with tax law, and what it's getting itself into. Yes there will
be unintended loopholes, but if they keep getting exploited noticeably year
after year without getting closed they're not really loopholes are they?
They're there by design.

What various countries in the EU are doing when it comes to their tax rhetoric
is absurd and disgusting. Their politicians are badmouthing individuals and
specific corporations who are in full compliance with the tax code for not
doing their part, while not exercising their power as legislators to actually
fix the situation that they're complaining about.

They're doing this because it gains them cheap political points from a certain
part of the electorate, while taking money from those same individuals and
corporations that are exploiting these "loopholes".

So yes, it is absurd and not morally right. But the politicians are being
immoral in singling out individuals in the court of public opinion while making
no effort to actually fix the issue, and it's absurd that some members of the
public are eating up this obvious publicity stunt of theirs.

What are you supposed to do as a business owner in this climate of political
sniping? Cave in to public opinion and pay higher taxes, and subsequently get
replaced by a more tax optimized competitor that doesn't pay the same attention
to bad press?
