Comment-Id:	13239787
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Thu Dec 22 19:48:00 UTC 2016
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	13239638

> I meant Feynman's later recounting of the whole affair

I've read that too. You're dangerously close to getting me to re-read
everything Feynman's written, again. I don't know whether to curse you or thank
you :)

> And then what? [...]

I feel we're in violent agreement as to what the actual problem at NASA was,
yes, I'm under no illusion that if some engineer had raised these issues it
would have gone well for him. This is made clear in the opening words of
Feynman's analysis,:

    [...] It appears that there are enormous differences of opinion as to the
    probability of a failure with loss of vehicle and of human life. The
    estimates range from roughly 1 in 100 to 1 in 100,000. The higher
    figures come from the working engineers, and the very low figures from
    management. What are the causes and consequences of this lack of
    agreement? Since 1 part in 100,000 would imply that one could put a
    Shuttle up each day for 300 years expecting to lose only one, we could
    properly ask "What is the cause of management's fantastic faith in the
    machinery?"

I'm pointing out, not to disagree with you, but just to use your comment as a
springboard, that to an outside observer this whole process led to some
"moronic engineering". Engineering is the sum of the actual construction &
design process and the management structure around it.

The real flaw in the report is that it didn't explore how that came to be
institutional practice at NASA, Feynman is the only one who tried.

> That's really not what I read behind the lines.

Regardless of what sort of dysfunctional management practices there were at
NASA they couldn't have launched the thing without their engineers. If they
were truly of the opinion that shuttle reliability was 3 orders of magnitude
less than what management thought, perhaps they should have refused to work on
it until that death machine was grounded pending review.

Of course that wouldn't have been easy, but it's our responsibility as
engineers to consider those sorts of options in the face of dysfunctional
management, especially when lives are on the line.
