Comment-Id:	13239481
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Thu Dec 22 19:01:09 UTC 2016
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	13239135

Your paraphrasing of Feynman's bridge quote is inaccurate. From Appendix F[1]
of the report:

    [..]  In spite of these variations from case to case, officials behaved as
    if they understood it, giving apparently logical arguments to each
    other often depending on the "success" of previous flights. For
    example. in determining if flight 51-L was safe to fly in the face of
    ring erosion in flight 51-C, it was noted that the erosion depth was
    only one-third of the radius. It had been noted in an experiment
    cutting the ring that cutting it as deep as one radius was necessary
    before the ring failed. Instead of being very concerned that
    variations of poorly understood conditions might reasonably create a
    deeper erosion this time, it was asserted, there was "a safety factor
    of three." This is a strange use of the engineer's term ,"safety
    factor." If a bridge is built to withstand a certain load without the
    beams permanently deforming, cracking, or breaking, it may be designed
    for the materials used to actually stand up under three times the
    load. This "safety factor" is to allow for uncertain excesses of load,
    or unknown extra loads, or weaknesses in the material that might have
    unexpected flaws, etc. If now the expected load comes on to the new
    bridge and a crack appears in a beam, this is a failure of the
    design. There was no safety factor at all; even though the bridge did
    not actually collapse because the crack went only one-third of the way
    through the beam. The O-rings of the Solid Rocket Boosters were not
    designed to erode. Erosion was a clue that something was wrong.
    Erosion was not something from which safety can be inferred.

His point about NASA's nonsensical use of the "safety factor" is not that you
could drive over a bridge, and look, it didn't break, so it must be OK!

It's even worse, you drive a truck over it, afterwards 1/3 of the steel is
cracked, so you conclude that it must be able to safely accept 3x the weight.
Nonesense! This is the sort of moronic engineering that killed the crew of the
Challenger.

1. http://science.ksc.nasa.gov/shuttle/missions/51-l/docs/roger...
