Comment-Id:	13272803
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Wed Dec 28 19:12:40 UTC 2016
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	13271397

> I've been clear about my meaning. Can't simplify it any further.

You really haven't. This entire thread is you taking disposablezero's "Relying
on error-prone, distracted, slow humans to guide massive killing machines is
playing Russian roulette" comment out of context as some moral statement about
human beings.

There's a bunch of things humans are worse at than machines, you're the only
one asserting that this somehow "devalues" people without any further
clarification.

I'm also worse at shoving nails into wood than a hammer is. How does that
devalue me?

> [Because certain types of technical advancement requires an element of
devaluing people]. That's your quote. What did you mean?

The set of things machines are better at than humans is only increasing over
time. Today nobody disputes that a combine harvester is better for the task
than a team of humans, but there's a tendency to overvalue human work as
machines are getting better.

I've noticed that changing with "handmade" within my lifetime, and we're
probably about to see it change with "human-driven vehicle" within the next
decade.

> There's a difference between preferring tech to do the driving and saying the
human has "less value". You don't see that?

No, I really don't. You haven't defined what you're talking about when you're
saying "value" or "devalue", but I will. I'm talking about value in the
economic sense. I.e. if you've made a combine harvester instead of needing 50
people to do manual labor for 16 hours a day you've optimized your economy and
added net value to our civilization.

I really don't buy this argument that saying a human has less value is a
negative. The logical conclusion to that argument is saying that we should
unwind civilization and technological advancements until we're all
hunter-gatherers again. Because surely the existence of the food industry
devalues hunters everywhere.

> In any case, a hostile regard for human fallibility that approaches promotion
of the dispensability of humans isn't a good thing.

No, it's the exact opposite. It's saying that we shouldn't waste a human
being's potential on some menial task like manually picking corn in a field or
driving a car.

To someone living in the future we're hopefully heading towards the notion of
someone needing to make driving a vehicle their full-time job will be as
ridiculous as the notion of of a human being needing to manually carry freight
is today, as opposed to using a truck.
