Comment-Id:	13417301
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Tue Jan 17 13:30:25 UTC 2017
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	13416439

> GMOs just make it faster.

No, GMOs will inherently change the game in the long term. We'll be able to
truly engineer life to be an optimal food supply, e.g. there's no inherent
reason there can't be a plant that can sit in your window, withstand freezing
temperatures, and grow both tomatoes, avocados and bananas.

Some versions of this are already happening with GMO food, they're surgically
introducing features to these plants that wouldn't be doable with just mutation
farming.

> I can't see a combine getting up there, can you?

No, but that was my point. The author of the article is railing against
industrialized farming and then producing a counterexample of some farm in
Austria that clearly isn't and can't be mechanized easily. That's clearly not
something you can use as a rebuke to current industrialized farming, one feeds
the world, another is a backyard hobby project.

> They can't afford mechanisation, so have to manually plough and weed[...]

Yes, and the solution to this is to enrich their societies, starting with the
introduction of modern farming practices. No need to start doing something
revolutionary we haven't tried in the west, just introduce them to mechanized
farming.

> Yes, they can be more drought resistant, but why are there droughts? [...]

Even if we perfectly manage everything else GMOs would still be a great tool to
expand the use of our land for farming. E.g. you could grow some cactus in the
middle of the Sahara that was easily edible.

> Farming is fucking complex, I'd suggest you go and work on a permaculture and
"modern" farm, to see just what's required.

And I suggest that if you're trying to make some point here about some hidden
knowledge I'm obviously missing and could only acquire through hands-on
experience you just come out and point that out, rather than effectively make
an ad-hominem argument by proxy.
