Comment-Id:	13694829
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Tue Feb 21 11:36:08 UTC 2017
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	13694216

[Book & movie spoilers galore]

As this article points out, referring to Louise being able to see the future in
the book:

    > "she is like an actor following a script, engaged in a
    > self-fulfilling prophecy, taking precisely the actions
    > necessary to bring about the future she sees. A
    > fictional example of this would be Paul Atreides in
    > Dune Messiah, whose prescience allows him to see
    > visions of the present and act despite being blind -
    > but only as long as he executes the actions which
    > bring about the vision, thereby keeping the visions
    > reflective of reality."

However, in the book her daughter dies in a climbing accident, not from
disease. The underlying point of the book as I read it is that free will
doesn't exist and we're all just helpless pawns doomed to play out the
inevitable.

Reportedly Hollywood didn't like that interpretation, so instead her daughter
dies from disease, so the movie doesn't have to explain why Louise can't just
tell her daughter "JUST DON'T EVER GO CLIMBING YOU'LL DIE I CAN SEE THE GODDAMN
FUTURE!".

I think as a result the movie really makes no sense. Seeing the future can
really only make sense if events are either determinate or you can't or are
unwilling to change them. Otherwise you wouldn't know what future you're seeing
or how your actions would impact the future.

In a universe where you can alter the future her vision of General Shang at the
end of the movie doesn't make any sense. How can she see what General Shang
told her in the future, if the only reason he told her is because of
information Shang sent to her from the future as a result of her current
actions, which are only possible due to information Shang sent her from the
future?

In the book it's not as if Louise sees a way to save all humanity and has to
make the hard choice to follow that path like Paul Atreides in Dune. She just
sees things pertaining to her family life, in particular that her daughter
eventually dies in an entirely preventable climbing accident.

So there you go, a movie that really makes no sense, although they had the good
sense to plaster over the more obvious plot hole with her daughter now that
free will is a thing by making her die from an incurable disease instead.
