Comment-Id:	14177984
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Sun Apr 23 13:01:00 UTC 2017
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	14177811

I think that's an absurdly low standard to apply to corporate speech.

The CEO of a multi-billion dollar company gets on stage during their main
annual product conference and says a newly announced product is going to become
an open industry standard.

This turns out not to possible in exactly the way the company had planned due
to a lawsuit, so the company drops the plan entirely.

That's a lie by definition. You asserted that you'd do something and then you
didn't do it. Does breaking a promise imply that there can't be any mitigating
circumstances? No, I'm sure there were some reasons for why FaceTime wasn't
opened.

People & companies make product buying decisions based on things like these,
e.g. some company might have bought a bunch of iPads for video conferencing
expecting that in a couple of years they'd be inter-operable with any device
they could buy, including non-Apple devices.

This excuse that they couldn't open the p2p thing they initially planned to
open is absurd. Apple could absolutely have just opened & standardized what
FaceTime ended up being, i.e. an open video chat client/server allowing anyone
to run a server. I.e. some sort of IRC or Jabber for video messaging.

Even if they couldn't open or release some specific component due to patent
concerns they could still have opened & standardized almost everything else,
see e.g. how open source video players ship pluggable codec support without
direct support for some proprietary & patented codecs.

Bringing this back to my original comment on APFS, do I think they won't open
that? No, they probably will. I just thought I'd point out that Apple has a
documented history of abandoning their open source / standardization plans
after making some very public announcements about them, so people should be
wary of counting their chickens before they're hatched when it comes to Apple.
