Comment-Id:	14232799
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Sun Apr 30 17:45:09 UTC 2017
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	14232629

Any free or open source software license does not need an EULA, and presenting
it as such is antithetical to the entire idea of free software.

You by definition do not need to agree to any free software license before you
use the software, you can vehemently disagree with it or completely ignore its
existence.

The license only exists to give you extra rights you didn't already have under
standard copyright law (permission to distribute the program & modify it, under
certain conditions).

An EULA is a dubious legal hack used by proprietary software to deprive you of
rights you'd have had anyway if not for the EULA, which is the exact opposite
of how free software works.

Edit: A lot of people are replying to this saying I'm incorrect. I'm not. A lot
of free software licenses such as the GPL v2 spell out explicitly that they
have nothing to do with anything except copying/distribution or modification:

    > Activities other than copying, distribution
    > and modification are not covered by this License;
    > they are outside its scope.[...]

The GPL v3 says the same thing in different words, and as FigBug points out
downthread the general FSF license FAQ makes this clear[1].

The Open Source definition also asserts this by proxy. Licenses aren't allowed
to impose any restrictions on users that they wouldn't have anyway if they had
no license to the software.

Really, if you use free software you can just completely ignore all the
licenses and you don't need to understand or have read any of them. This is one
of the beautiful things about free software that separates it from EULA-using
proprietary software.

Of course you need to understand the licenses if you want to distribute the
software in any way, but that entirely falls under the umbrella of activity you
didn't have permission for without the license, it would be copyright
infringement by default.

This is also why free software organizations like the FSF would as a last
resort sue someone for copyright infringement, not violating the GPL (but of
course adhering to the GPL would bring them back into compliance).

This is different from proprietary software companies which might sue you over
violations of their own made up rules, which you supposedly agreed to via the
EULA.

The EULA is a hack to try to apply contract law to your use of the program,
whereas free software & open source licenses purely piggy-back on copyright
law.

All those licenses are a way to say "here's stuff we allow you to do, which you
didn't have legal permission to do anyway in the absence of this license, given
certain conditions" (or no conditions for e.g. the WFTPL).

1. https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-faq.en.html#NoDistributionR...
