Comment-Id:	4596963
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Mon Oct  1 13:57:49 UTC 2012
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	4596375

Amsterdam, The Netherlands. H1B[1]

Booking.com is always on the lookout for good developers, DBA's and sysadmins
on-site in the center of Amsterdam. I'm a developer there currently working on
infrastructure tasks and relocated over there about two years ago, and have
been very happy with it.

We have people from all over the world relocating to work with us and are very
well set up to handle relocation and visa issues, most of the people working in
IT are expats so we've got a lot of experience with bringing people in.

It's a rapidly growing company that represents the biggest chunk of the
Priceline (PCLN) group of companies where problems that look relatively mundane
on paper become much more interesting due to the scale and growth levels we're
operating at.

We use Perl for almost everything with a MySQL backend and Git for development.
We get our changes out really fast, it's rare for your code not to be on our
live systems within hours of you pushing it. We're also very open to open
sourcing code that doesn't contain any business logic, I've personally been
involved in open sourcing a few of our internal tools, including https://
github.com/git-deploy and a few CPAN modules.

We have a relatively flat hierarchy with minimum levels of bureaucracy since
we're very data driven and have a clear goal: helping our customers. Everything
we do is aimed at solving problems for our customers, if it doesn't help our
customers we're not interested in doing it. You don't have to know Perl in
advance to be a developer there. We've hired people who've done C, Java etc.
before. The sort of people we'd like to hire are good technically, excellent at
communication, and can acquire a good sense of how they fit into the big
picture.

I'd be happy to answer any questions at avarab@gmail.com and/or forward your
resume, I've posted in a similar thread here a couple of times before and have
already helped get one person hired, many others have had or are having
interviews, and I've fielded a bunch of questions from would-be applicants.
http://booking.com/jobs also has some good information.

1. Well, not H1B, but we'll take care of the Dutch equivalent.
