Comment-Id:	6137519
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Wed Jul 31 23:21:45 UTC 2013
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	6137259

It's interesting that someone who professes loving to program in Perl refers to
it as "PERL". People who refer to it in all-caps instantly give themselves away
as outsiders to the language. It's like someone claiming to be a senior JAVA
programmer, it's not an acronym.

Anyway we use Perl pretty much exclusively at Booking.com, and I'm pretty sure
we're at least a couple of orders of magnitude bigger than the likes of
Crowdtilt. There's a bunch of other interesting companies using Perl as well, a
lot of them just don't make as much of a fuss about it as the companies using
say Ruby.

Last I knew e.g. Morgan Stanley used it for most everything, including new
developments, and it alone probably employs more programmers using it than the
combined hobbyist contributor base of some newer emerging languages.

It's pretty hard to claim that Perl is "dead" and square that with the ongoing
activity on the CPAN (https://metacpan.org/recent). This is not the kind of
activity a dead language gets.

I think what a lot of people mix up is that just because something isn't as big
as it was before doesn't mean it's dead.

C isn't as big relatively as it was in the 80s, Perl isn't relatively as
ubiquitous for scripting and web development as it was in the 90s, but neither
of those languages are dead.

If you look at the total amount of contributions / software written for any of
the languages that aren't currently in the spotlight you'll most likely find
that we're at the high water mark of the number of the amount of software
written in them, and the number of people that have been employed to write
software in them, just because the industry as a whole is getting bigger every
day.

Maybe they're not bigger relatively compared to some other languages. But that
has little bearing on how good they are when it comes to using them in your
toolchain. If anything they're better than they've ever been before.
