Comment-Id:	8753555
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Mon Dec 15 18:47:17 UTC 2014
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	8753055

    > Older people and disabled people make up a measured percentage
    > as well. So less than 90%.

How does being older have anything to do with needing more leg room? Depending
on the disability that may not matter either.

    > Additionally everyone benefits from more seat pitch

As an anecdote I'm 183 cm (or 6") and I actually find it really uncomfortable
to sit at the optional incline offered by airlines, I'd like to either be
sitting straight up or lie completely level, nothing in-between. So I'm not
benefiting from it, unless it's getting quite close to 90 degrees.

    > It has nothing to do with "comfort. [...] It is what people need
    > so they aren't in physical pain for the duration of the flight.

I'm relatively fine with the current seat arrangement, and I'm happy that
airlines aren't being mandated to increase prices for everyone due to some
government-imposed seat size regulations.

I'm happy that I have the option to choose airlines like EasyJet for shorter
trips which are essentially glorified cattle carts with wings on them, but
which would allow me to affordably go somewhere over a weekend. If I want more
seat space there's always something like KLM's Economy+, or other similar
premium arrangements.

    > If airlines want to save some money, remove recline completely.

Aside from the fact that you're entering into a voluntary business arrangement
with the airline, and it's somewhat presumptuous to assume that you're better
aware of how they could save money than they are:

When you're sitting down in a chair your upper body isn't taking up volume in
the space going up vertically from your knees, so there's space for the seat in
front of you to recline into that space.

So this suggestion doesn't make sense. It's not an either-or, maybe airlines
would benefit from removing or reducing recline, but that's not mutually
exclusive with saving money by reducing the space between seats.
